# tomte pipeline parameters

Pipeline to analyse RNAseq from raredisease patients

## Input/output options

Define where the pipeline should find input data and save output data.

`--input` `string` containing path to comma-separated file containing information about the samples in the experiment [Help](https://github.com/genomic-medicine-sweden/tomte/blob/master/docs/usage.md#samplesheet-input).

`--outdir` `string` with the output directory where the results will be saved. You have to use absolute paths to storage on Cloud infrastructure.

`--email` `string` with email address for completion summary. Set this parameter to your e-mail address to get a summary e-mail
with details of the run sent to you when the workflow exits. If set in your user config file (`~/.nextflow/config`) then you don't need to specify this on the command line for every run.

`--multiqc_title` `string` with MultiQC report title. Printed as page header, used for filename if not otherwise specified.

## Reference genome options

Reference genome related files and options required for the workflow.

`--genome` `string` with name of iGenomes reference. If using a reference genome configured in the pipeline using iGenomes, use this parameter to give the ID for the reference. This is then used to build the full paths for all required reference genome files e.g. `--genome GRCh38`. [Further details](https://nf-co.re/usage/reference_genomes).

`--fasta` `string` with path to FASTA genome file. This parameter is _mandatory_ if `--genome` is not specified. If you don't have a BWA index available this will be generated for you automatically. Combine with `--save_reference` to save BWA index for future runs.

`--fasta_fai` `string` with path to FASTA genome index file. If none provided, will be generated automatically from the FASTA.

`--gtf` `string` with path to GTF annotation file. This parameter is _mandatory_ if `--genome` is not specified.

`--igenomes_base` `string` with directory / URL base for iGenomes references. Default `s3://ngi-igenomes/igenomes`.

`--igenomes_ignore` `boolean` avoids loading the iGenomes reference config. Do not load `igenomes.config` when running the pipeline. You may choose this option if you observe clashes between custom parameters and those supplied in `igenomes.config`.

`--save_reference` `boolean` to indicate if indices/references generated by the pipeline should be saved in the required results directory.

`--sequence_dict` `string` path to genome dictionary file.

`--star_index` `string` path to directory or tar.gz archive for pre-built STAR index.

## Institutional config options

Parameters used to describe centralised config profiles. These should not be edited.

`--custom_config_version` `string` git commit id for Institutional configs.

`--custom_config_base` `string` base directory for Institutional configs. If you're running offline, Nextflow will not be
able to fetch the institutional config files from the internet. If you don't need them, then this is not a problem. If you do need them, you should download the files from the repo and tell Nextflow where to find them with this parameter https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nf-core/configs/master.

`--config_profile_name` `string` Institutional config name.

`--config_profile_description` `string` Institutional config description.

`--config_profile_contact` `string` Institutional config contact information.

`--config_profile_url` `string` Institutional config URL link.

## Max job request options

Set the top limit for requested resources for any single job.

`--max_cpus` `integer` Maximum number of CPUs that can be requested for any single job. Use to set an upper-limit for the CPU
requirement for each process. Should be an integer e.g. `--max_cpus 1`. Default `16`.

`--max_memory` `string` Maximum amount of memory that can be requested for any single job. Use to set an upper-limit for the memory requirement for each process. Should be a string in the format integer-unit e.g. `--max_memory '8.GB'`. Default `128.GB`.

`--max_time` `string` Maximum amount of time that can be requested for any single job. Use to set an upper-limit for the time requirement for each process. Should be a string in the format integer-unit e.g. `--max_time '2.h'`. Default `240.h`.

## Generic options

Less common options for the pipeline, typically set in a config file.

`--help` `boolean` Display help text.

`--version` `boolean` Display version and exit.

`--publish_dir_mode` `string` Method used to save pipeline results to output directory. The Nextflow `publishDir` option
specifies which intermediate files should be saved to the output directory. This option tells the pipeline what method should be used to move these files. See [Nextflow docs](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/process.html#publishdir) for details.

`--email_on_fail` `string` Email address for completion summary, only when pipeline fails. An email address to send a summary email to when the pipeline is completed - ONLY sent if the pipeline does not exit successfully.

`--plaintext_email` `boolean` Send plain-text email instead of HTML.

`--max_multiqc_email_size` `string` File size limit when attaching MultiQC reports to summary emails. Default `25.MB`.

`--monochrome_logs` `boolean` Do not use coloured log outputs.

`--hook_url` `string` Incoming hook URL for messaging service. Incoming hook URL for messaging service. Currently, MS Teams
and Slack are supported.

`--multiqc_config` `string` Custom config file to supply to MultiQC.

`--multiqc_logo` `string` Custom logo file to supply to MultiQC. File name must also be set in the MultiQC config file.

`--multiqc_methods_description` `string` Custom MultiQC yaml file containing HTML including a methods description.

`--tracedir` `string` Directory to keep pipeline Nextflow logs and reports. Default `${params.outdir}/pipeline_info`.

`--validate_params` `boolean` Boolean whether to validate parameters against the schema at runtime. Default `True`.

`--show_hidden_params` Show all params when using `--help`, including those that are hidden in the schema that are not shown by default with `--help`. Specifying this option will tell the pipeline to show all parameters.
